1. Using the code from Try This 8-1, put the ICharQ interface and its three implementations
into a package called qpack. Keeping the queue demonstration class IQDemo in the default
package, show how to import and use the classes in qpack.

add:
	package qpack; //to all files inside qpack directory. Also, make all files public in qpack directory or else IQDemo will not be able to access the files.
	import qpack.*: //adds all files from qpack directory to IQDemo.java

2. What is a namespace? Why is it important that Java allows you to partition the namespace?
	A namespace is a way to organize files and is important and is implemented in java in the form of packages. The reason it is important is that it will allow for duplicate file naming as long as they are in different directories and will allow for files to be accessed from packages through the directory naming and importing.

3. Packages are stored in ______________.
	directories.

4. Explain the difference between protected and default access.
	the difference between protected and default access is that default access only allows access of a given file to the files in the given package. Protected allows classes inside of a package as well as subclasses outside of a package to gain access to the given file.

5. Explain the two ways that the members of a package can be used by other packages.
	by using the full path name of the file or use of import and then accessing directly to the file.

6. “One interface, multiple methods” is a key tenet of Java. What feature best exemplifies it?
	the interfaces feature best exemplifies the "one interface, multiple methods" concept as it allows for multiple methods to be defined with no body and then other classes can implement the given methods to their own needs.

7. How many classes can implement an interface? How many interfaces can a class implement?
	All classes can implement an interface. A class can implement as many interfaces as they wish.

8. Can interfaces be extended?
	Yes, this is possible.

9. Create an interface for the Vehicle class from Chapter 7. Call the interface IVehicle.
	//VehicleFolder/IVehicle.java
	//VehicleFolder/Vehicle.java

10. Variables declared in an interface are implicitly static and final. Can they be shared with
other parts of a program?
	Yes, they can be shared with other parts of a program.

11. A package is, in essence, a container for classes. True or False?
	True.

12. What standard Java package is automatically imported into a program?
	import java.lang

13. What keyword is used to declare a default interface method?
	keyword default

14. Beginning with JDK 8, is it possible to define a static method in an interface?
	Yes, it is possible.

15. Assume that the ICharQ interface shown in Try This 8-1 has been in widespread use for
several years. Now, you want to add a method to it called reset( ), which will be used to
reset the queue to its empty, starting condition. Assuming JDK 8 or later, how can this be
accomplished without breaking preexisting code?
	In order to implement the reset() method, it should be declared as default reset() and given default behavior which means a body is defined.


16. How is a static method in an interface called?
	The same way that static class methods are called except it will be called through the interface name and the dot operator.




